Marinduque State College Information

BRIEF HISTORY
Marinduque State College (MSC) had its beginnings in 1952 when Republic Act
No. 805 authored by then Congressman Panfilo M. Manguera Sr., was signed into law by
the late President Elpidio Quirino, establishing Marinduque School of Arts and Trades
(MSAT) in Tanza, Boac, Marinduque. The school was on two levels of education up to
1975; the Two-Year Technical Education and the Four-Year Secondary Curricula.
From school year 1975 – 76 the Department of Education, Culture & Sports
(DECS) Order No. 28, s. 1975 authorized the school to offer the four-year Bachelor of
Science in Industrial Technology (BSIT) curriculum, and upon the second endorsement
of the then Secretary of Education, the school was further permitted to offer the Bachelor
in Industrial Education (BSIE) curriculum in school year 1978-79.
On April 8, 1983 Batas Pambansa Blg. 377 filed by the late Honorable Carmencita
O. Reyes was signed into law by then President Ferdinand E. Marcos, converting the
MSAT into the Marinduque Institute of Science and Technology (MIST) thus providing
opportunities to expand its curricular offerings. Consequently, the Bachelor of Science in
Civil Engineering (BSCE) was opened in Boac Campus, and its Torrijos Campus estab-
lished to offer the Bachelor of Science in Agriculture, Bachelor of Science in Fisheries,
Trade Technical Education, and Secondary Education.
Cong. Reyes again filed a bill and authored Republic Act No. 6833 changing the
name of Marinduque Institute of Science and Technology to Marinduque State College;
effective January 5, 1990. Later she also authored Republic Act No. 7319 which was ap-
proved on March 30, 1992, making MSC more accessible to more people by establishing
“the College of Agriculture in Poctoy, Torrijos, the College of Fisheries in Pinggan,
Gasan and the Marinduque Community College in Sta. Cruz, as branches of Marinduque
State College”.
Fast forward to June, 2018—Hon. Congressman Lord Allan Jay Q. Velasco and
Hon. Senator Juan Edgardo M. Angara sponsored a bill converting MSC into a universi-
ty, which was consequently signed into law on April 26, 2019, by former President Ro-
drigo R. Duterte. Republic Act 11334—an “act converting the Marinduque State College
in the Municipality of Boac, Province of Marinduque into a state university, to be known
as the Marinduque State University” — became a significant milestone in the history of
Marinduque State College in its journey towards becoming a full-fledged university.